(CNN)Far from the holiday specials of the past -- which dutifully arrived on the major networks each year, from Frosty and Rudolph to Charlie Brown and the Grinch -- much of this year's barrage of Christmas specials will stream into the season.  Apple TV  made news by acquiring the Charlie Brown specials, moving them off of ABC (before making them available via PBS). But that's just the tip of a tinsel-topped iceberg of content, with several cable channels (Freeform, Hallmark and Lifetime among them) heavily turning their schedules over to holiday fare. As for the relative newcomers to this annual programming onslaught, streaming services -- some of which didn't even exist last Christmas -- have also gotten into the act, with a lineup of original movies and series intended to woo subscribers. The following is just a smattering of what's on tap over the next few weeks, including a few mini-reviews to help separate naughty options from the nice ones, as programmers vie to find the next perennial "It's a Wonderful Life" (again scheduled for Christmas eve on NBC) or "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" (Dec. 1 on CBS). Given that those specials were just that -- special -- when they rolled around every year in the pre-DVR era, that's unlikely. But appropriately for the holidays, hope springs eternal. Music specials! This year, everyone wants in on the old-time Christmas special act, which includes: "CMA Country Christmas" (ABC, Nov. 30), Carrie Underwood (HBO Max, Dec. 3), Mariah Carey (Apple TV , Dec. 4), Dolly Parton (CBS, Dec. 6), "High School  Musical: The Musical: The Holiday Special" (Dec. 11, Disney ), Argentine pop singer Diego Torres (HBO Max, Dec. 18), and a Garth Brooks-Trisha Yearwood live concert (CBS, Dec. 20).  "Jingle Jangle: A Christmas Journey" (Netflix): Recently launched on Netflix, this energetic original musical stars Forest Whitaker as a toy maker -- robbed of his best ideas -- who rediscovers the holiday spirit when his granddaughter enters the picture. "The Lego Star Wars Holiday Special" (Disney ): Spoofing the legendarily bad 1978 "Star Wars" holiday special, this animated hour celebrates "Life Day" -- and 40-plus years of cinematic history -- with the characters from the most recent trilogy. "Dolly Parton's Christmas on the Square" (Nov. 22, Netflix): Featuring original songs from Parton's holiday album, the movie perhaps not surprisingly has an inordinately high sugar content, with Christine Baranski as the Scrooge-like figure who intends to evict the inhabitants of a small town, before finding holiday cheer (and a few other surprises). The songs aren't especially memorable, so the movie -- directed and choreographed by Debbie Allen -- falls into the category of those you really have to be in the mood